This is a fairly informal style guide for TW.
Please read this before translating, I will try to keep it short.

Ellipsis
You can't start a sentence with "..." -> "...I thought you" doesn't work, go "... I thought you"
Ellipsis can be used to pause a sentence -> "He...opened the door"
Treat "..." as " " or "." If it starts a new sentence, add a space, otherwise don't.
"My goodness...doing this" means "My goodness doing this", not "My goodness, doing this". Commas are commas.
"Aaah" isn't speech, thus, it can't start a sentence. -> "Ahh, Just stop"
Consequently, "...Ah." works.
If an ellipsis finishes a sentence, put space after it before sound effects unless it's a slur.
"be a good girl...ah" doesn't work as "girl-ah" sounds like Tommy Wiseau.
"I'm cumming...ghhh" works though.
Sounds that can continue each other need no space. -> "Haa...aahh", but "Haa... Haah..." One is continuous, the other is two breaths.
Ellipsis can come after other symbols. "Ah～... That won't do"
Between "!! ... Wait", "!!... Wait", and "!! ...Wait", the last is better, if it it breaks one rule.

Onomatopoeia
Transliterate as a base rule. Normally you would use writing to describe what people do.
"She laughs haughtily", not "Ufufu". But that would involve rewriting the entire game to a novel format.
Capitalize sound effects to differentiate them from words. "Haa, Nhh, Ah."
Do not use ** to denote sound effects, no "*CRASH*/*THUD*" etc.

Synonyms
Variations are nice, but do not rely on them at all. If you want variations on a sentence just add more.
Switching out individual words doesn't give much. "leave me [alone/be]" is two different ways of saying the same thing.
If you can't settle on one word, make a completely new sentence and randomize the two.
"My breasts are gonna [leak/burst]" -> "[I'm cumming from my breasts/My breasts are gonna burst]".
This ties in with the onomatopoeia, random moans are fine if the situation itself is random.
Always consider the worst possible outcome when using synonyms.

Descriptive functions
TINKO, OPPAI_DESCRIPTION etc. should only be used if the sentence calls for it.
When using TINKO, does it really matter that it's big or small? If not, just say "penis" or something.

Tense
Ongoing second person, always, ever. Do not switch to past tense because it "feels better" or "makes sense".

Punctuation
If quoting, use 「」or『』. Make sure not to have spaces before or after them though.
Keep ～ and －, but remove full-width spaces, exclamation marks, and question marks "！" "？" "　".
Use - to interrupt, "Wh-What are you", use ー to draw something out, "Kyaaー", and ～ to add emotion, "Ara Ara～"
（）are used for internal dialog, do not replace those with (), in menus though use ().
Sentences can end with the following: . ? ! ～ ー [ascii heart or other symbol].
Compare the following:
Collapsing Star, Roaring Cannon!
『Collapsing Star』Roaring Cannon!
The second one is just so much... Cooler!
You want to use my "Manipulation Of Flowers" ability?
You want to use my『Manipulation Of Flowers』ability?
!? emphasizes the accusation, ?! emphasizes the question.

Ne/Mattaku/Mou
As a general rule, do not translate it as ", right?/Can't be helped/Aw jeez" unless it feels like it actually works.
Rewrite the sentence instead.
Turning 1-3 syllable words into 4-5 word phrases is not a good idea, too many lines will look identical.
As a note, "Good Lord" does not make sense if the person say it isn't Christian.
"Jeez" comes from Jesus, so, do not include this unless the character comes from the modern world.
No minced oaths allowed.

Japanese vocabulary
Keep honorifics.
If the person is being incredibly polite and speaks in keigo, it's fine to go "Itadakimasu" and similar.
Stock phrases like "Let's dig in!" or "Bon appetit" are not okay.

Line length
You have 149 characters to play with, 146 with 「」. This is more than enough to write a sentence.
If a line becomes too long, split it instead of risking it break (with or without anti-break functions).

User interface
Do not use punctuation or first person in choices.
[0]Yes
[1]No
Not
[0]Yes I do.
[1]No I don't.
Using contractions like "gimme" in place of "give me" is fine.

Stuttering repeats the case -> "C-C-Cold", not "C-c-cold"

Do not mention metric or imperial units, so no "can't move an inch". 
Unless of course they literally say "meters" or something.

If you want to write comments, add them on a separate line.

Pronouns
There is at present no plans at all to introduce a fourth gender.
Thus, if it's a vagina just go "her", not "his/her".
This is to save time and effort.
Even if male pregnancy was added, male vaginas wouldn't be.